# Notes on FSO

I had these notes I took during the course of FSO and I figured it would be worth posting so anyone who is interested would know what to expect. These notes were last updated on August 9, 2020 prior to my posting now. 

- Preface: this is not a beginner's course. In my opinion, this isn't even a beginner's React, Node, or MongoDB course. If you are new to programming and are introduced to any of these tools for the first time, you may have a difficult time with the course. If you have some kind of programming experience and some well of knowledge to compare to, this course will be a fine introduction to these tools. If you have used these tools before but want to strengthen your skill with them, this is an exceptional course to go though. This last group is the group that I fall into. 
- Parts 0-3: this was mostly review; the country/weather project was neat. 
- Part 3: I used Mongoose and MongoDB and involved more practice with them; I have used these tools before when I was first learning but I didn't fully understand it back then since I mostly code-along more of an introduction to these tools; I understand the setup a lot better and find it an interesting way to think about structuring data.
- Part 4: We moved on to use async/await more widely; I read up on the use cases vs promise chains; I opted to use async/await more for practice; the password hashing helped validate an old bootcamp project where I wrote my own hash in java, though we used a prebuilt dependency for it here (bcrypt); I also learned how to write token and authentication from scratch which was neat; the tests in Jest was fine in the first few exercises, but became difficult to set up correctly when you have to work with hashing; I would say about half the time here was spent writing, setting up, and debugging why the tests were not working properly; decided not to do part 4.22 which required setting token authentication for testing, which would have probably added another 4-5 hours to just figure out and I would much rather move on to part 5 since I've already spent 2 weeks on part 4 alone. Articles https://itnext.io/javascripts-async-await-versus-promise-the-great-debate-6308cb2e10b3 based on https://v8.dev/blog/fast-async were good reads.
- Part 5: I looked forward to parts 5a-5b because it was working with token authentication and login and was moving back to the frontend for a bit, so I was happy to get to this point and was interested to see it implemented. I also learned about props.children which I am kind of shocked I didn't know about before, or maybe I did but never used it? Going into 5c was more testing, but this time in React which I have done before, but it just feels much better than straight up Jest/unit testing. So while I was feeling apprehensive about more testing assignments, it went pretty quickly. In 5d, it was yet again more testing, this time end to end testing with Cypress. I have to admit I was kind of blown away by the Cypress tool and it's documentation. It made testing really fun (for me). I did spent a bit of time debugging what I thought was a bug w/ Sypress in working with the test db, but it turns out it wasn't actually a bug. Doh about 2 hours for nothing there. 
- Part 6: We're now at Redux. Up until now, most of the content had been review for me. While I knew the super basics of Redux, oh boy, it got more complicated w/ more than one reducer or using it w/ more complex data structures. I learned about a few new convenience packages that can be utilized to make life easier w/ redux and I learned a newer way of using Redux w/ hooks vs the "older" way w/ connect which I was more familiar with. It's more/different abstraction that I needed to wrap my head around. It's a great tool and I feel like I need to take a specific Redux course or write a small app using Redux only (though it may not necessarily be needed) so I can get the practice. They also recommended a course I found by the creator of Redux, Dan Abramov on egghead.io.
- Part 7: This seems like the grab bag section as it has a bit of everything and some parts are just reading. 7A We start with React Router which I have some experience with so I was able to get through it quickly. I learned a few more React Router hooks which will be very useful to me. While I can read the React Router documentation, some of it is not clear to me on what/how things work. 7B is learning about creating custom React hooks. I goddamn know how to make one now! So exciting. 7C-7E was all reading on styling, webpack, and a review on class components. 7F is a freaking doozy of a section because it was 13 exercises that involved major refactoring to Redux, developing new features w/ React router, and styling. Because there were so many assignments, it was intimidating for me to get started (also since I am such a noob at Redux and the refactoring was the very first assignment). I spent 2 days on dragging my feet in getting started with this section. It would have been better if they broke up the assignments in each of the readings, which they did reference, since having it in smaller chunks wouldn't feel so overwhelming. But in the end, after mustering up the motivation, it was fine once I got started. 
  - 7.21 Course Feedback: Since I don't have access to the moodle (you need to be a credit earning UoH student), I will write my review here instead. For someone with some intermediate experience in React, Node, and Mongo but are by no means an expert, this course is exceptional. It allowed me to practice what I already know and provided further insight into new aspects and processes of working with the MERN stack. The follow along examples give enough hints to complete the exercises, but not so much that it handholds you. The course is clearly scaffolding and requires the student to understand and complete each section before advancing to the next to much effectiveness. My only complaint is to break the exercises in 7F to other sections (even though it may not be directly related to the readings), so that it does not seem so overwhelming. Other suggestions would be to create a community in Slack or Discord rather than Telegram. Telegram is not so easy to follow along as it is one giant chatroom, whereas Slack or Discord will allow for channels that can better organize the discussion. Those are pretty slight complaints, but overall, the course has been an amazing experience and I appreciate that UoH offers it for free. Thank you! I am looking forward to learning about GraphQL and Typescript, of which both will be new to me. 
- Part 8: This is a great introduction to GraphQL and Apollo with use along w/ MongoDB. Part 8B includes another big refactoring job to move it to MongoDB. These lengthy refactoring assignments always feels overwhelming to me, but it is a good experience once you complete them. The pace of this section seems fast and dense to me, though it could be because I am fairly new to GraphQL as I have only watched a few tutorials prior to starting this section. There were some small gaps that felt like it was missing, such as the n+1 problem at the end that felt very abstract and I wasn't sure what the steps were to test for the problem. Overall, some assignments could very easily been broken into two Parts with more information added. And while it was acknowledged in the "Epilogue" I do wish the proper application structure was implemented throughout the Part for the additional practice, as opposed to referring to reading materials mentioned at the end. Still a very good and very dense section and a great introduction to GraphQL. 
- Part 9: Typescript. Having some what of a Java background and experience in a statically typed language, it was not too bad. I just have to remember the syntax. The linting can be irritating, but I know why it's important. The assignments were interesting and lengthy. This whole section could be it's own course itself. 
- Part 10: React Native - I didn't do this section as it released near the same time that I was wrapping up TS. Since I am not too interested in developing mobile apps at this time, I decided to put off starting this part. 
- Part 11: CICD - This is new as of 2021! I obviously have not worked on this, but looking forward to it when time allows!
